# 04-12-19

## Testing Instructions

- Rebuild the cheri sdk with capt-hb/llvm-project.


Run a test with the new instructions:

```bash
$ make pytest/sail_cheri_c/tests/uninitialized_capabilities/test_getuninit.py # should succeed
```

### Notes

Prefer `assert` over `self.assertRegisterEquals`, assert is the preferred way + shows more output for debugging.

Files to edit for adding uninitialized_capabilities tests:

- Makefile.files.mk : add the new assembly file to the var `TEST_UNINIT_FILES`

Files edited for including uninit caps tests (no more modifications needed):

- Makefiles.files.ml: `TEST_DIRS` includes uninitialized_capabilities
- Makefiles.tests.mk: `TESTS` and `TEST_PYTHON` modified to include uninit cap tests

### Fixes

CUninit instruction refactored to be a 2-operand instruction.
CUninit LLVM encoding updated + memory intrinsics update.

CUninit encoding changed to be 0x1b, tried using 0x14, 0x15, ... but resulted in reserved instruction errors (even though these encodings are not indicated to be reserved in the CHERIv7 ISA doc)


### Troubleshooting Building SDK

#### <Python.h> Missing

Make sure the Makefile uses python3.8! (would be better to use pkg-config though...)

## Modifications

Modifications to existing instructions have been made, see `sail-cheri-mips/cheri/cheri_insts.sail`.
Tests have been run with the original sail-cheri-mips repo and the modified one to ensure no tests fail after adding uninit cap logic. (OK)

## UC Instrs

### UCStore

Store the data from rs in the address that cb.address refers to.

`ucstore $rs $cb $ct [BWHD]`

$ct will contain the updated capability (cursor incremented).

### "UCSplit"

No instruction added, copy the cap using CMove and CSub it into 2 caps.

