# 19-12-19

## Uninit Permission

The uninit permission can be combined with any other permission because it 
narrows the permissions of a capability, there will be no conflict.

Example:
A cap with only Store permission will not be able to start loading data
when the uninit permission is added.

The permissions that a uninit cap will require to be "fully" functional to its
only-read-after-write semantics are the store and load permissions. As mentioned
above, the uninit perm narrows permissions and more precisely the loading and store
permissions.

## UCStoreCap

Nothing found that allows moving content of GPR to Cap register, so I've implemented
UCStoreCap (and UCStore remains useful).

## Compatibility Issue

```c
int* someptr; // assume some value
int length;   // assume some value

for (int* ptr = someptr; ptr < someptr + length; ptr++) {
	// writing would happen here
	*ptr = &ptr + 1;
}

// On the last iteration, ptr would still get incremented before the condition
// of the loop is checked again, so it should be possible to have the cap
// go out of its bounds.
```

As discussed in the previous meeting, I did not allow setting the address outside of
the bounds. This issue has now been fixed, allowing the address to be out of bounds
when the address of the cap is above the end of its bounds.

The reason it has to be above it is because the address gets incremented _after_
writing to the location it points to. 
So an uninit cap which has written on its entire region 
will have a cursor > base + length.

Implementation: 

- See changes to offset manipulation instrs
- See _capAddrReachedEnd_ helper function in `cheri_prelude_256.sail`

## Instructions Added to Assembler

The new instructions, UCStore and UCStoreCap are added to the assembler
with the following encoding (x is the size, word, halfword, ...):

| Instruction | OPCode | Format | Source 1 | Source 2 | Destination | --- | x   |
| ----------- | ------ | ------ | -------- | -------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| UCSX        | 0x3b   | ct     | rs       | cb       | offset      | 0x0 | x   |
| UCSC        | 0x3c   | ct     | cs       | cb       | offset      | /   | /   |

Where UCS is UCStore and UCSC is UCStoreCap.

### Modifications


`MipsInstrCheri.td`:

- `UCSTORECAP`
- `USTOREVIACAP`
- `UCAPSTOREX`

#### Issue Linker

When modifying the llvm assembler, I ran into an issue that took me quite a bit before I could solve it.
Previously, I was able to build llvm with _ninja_ using the default parallelization settings.
This time, I suddenly got some troubles with the linker, that got killed due to OOM.
Googling this issue wasn't that helpful since the suggested solutions has to do with increasing memory.
This seemed odd to me, I was able to build LLVM just a few minutes before running into the issue
and having been able to build it on a 16GB RAM pc was no problem, so building on a pc with 64GB RAM
should definitely work.

The solution turned out to be to reduce the amount of cores the make tool uses for the linker. 
So currently I build LLVM with `ninja`, and as soon as the error pops op (at the end of the build)
I run `ninja -j 1` and the build continues and succeeds (it does take considerably longer than 
before of course).

## Tests

### test_csealuninit

Tests if a sealed capability cannot be made uninitialized (preserving immutability of sealed caps).
Plus test that it _can_ be made uninit after unsealing.

## Calling Convention

Interesting files: 

- `llvm/lib/Target/Mips/MipsCallingConv.td`: calling convention descriptions
- `llvm/lib/Target/Mips/MipsFrameLowering.cpp`: stack frame processing methods

`CheriPureCapABI.cpp` seems to be used for setting the bounds of the stack pointer correctly.

## Notes

Intra vs inter compartment calls?
