# 20-02-20

## QEMU Build Fail

Solved, removed qemu + build files, reinstalled and now works again.

## Calling Convention Tests

It is not possible to create tests in the cheritest repo based on the current calling convention,
as seen in the llvm output of `c_files/simple_call.c`. The generated assembly is supposed to be run
on CHERIBSD.

Running tests on cheribsd should be straightforward once it is up and running, see the official 
cambridge page for how to run this (```$ cheritest # in cheribsd```).

Currently unable to test this, the cheribsd build is stuck at:
```
>>> Making hierarchy
```

## Calling Convention Implementation

Call Lowering happens in MipsISelLowering.cpp, see function LowerCall.

### Question

New uninit instrs require that these instrs be used with uninit stack pointers.
It is not immediately clear how this can be done, so that the uninit store instruction
is selected for uninit caps. One possible way to do this is by branching on the uninit
bit and based on that use the correct store instruction (seems like a big overhead for all
store instructions...).

Another option is to actually remove the added uninit instr and modify the existing 
store instr to take uninit caps into account. This would make the adjustments to the calling
convention more trivial. In this case it is only necessary that the stack pointer used by
the callee is a "sub" cap of the stack pointer used by the caller.

## Instruction Decoding Conflict

There was a conflict between 2 instructions (conflict occurred after updating llvm repo), in which
CGetPCCIncOffset and CGetUninit share the same instruction encoding.

This was easy to resolve by changing the decoding of CGetUninit to:

| Instruction | OPCode | Format | Source 1 | Source 2 | Destination | Function |
| ----------- | ------ | ------ | -------- | -------- | ----------- | -------- |
| CGetUninit  | 0x12   | 0x0    | rd       | cb       | 0x15        | 0x3f     |

Changes made in sail-cheri-mips and llvm.
